[REWORK] Patrols (#5563)
ClanGenOfficial/clangen: docs/dev/writing/patrols/patrols.md

| `p_l`        | The patrol leader: the cat in the patrol with the highest relevant rank and, within involved cats of that rank, is either the oldest or the most experienced.  For medicine cat patrols, this will either be a medicine cat or medicine cat apprentice. For normal patrols, this will go from the highest to lowest rank (leader > deputy > warrior > apprentice).                                                                                                         |                                                                                                 |
| `r_c#`       | A random cat: this cat is chosen at complete random and will not be the patrol leader. You can specify constraints on this cat to require it to have certain attributes rather than being entirely random. The `#` is replaced with a number: 0-5. It's recommended to begin at 0 and increment as needed.                                                                                                                                                                 | |      

> | `s_c#`       | An additional special cat: this cat has some constraints being required of it and could be a cat who was previously assigned an abbreviation. For example, if the patrol as a whole requires `r_c0` to be a warrior and you wish to add an outcome in which any cat with the `calm` trait, including `r_c0`, could also play a role, then you would use `s_c` for that cat.The `#` is replaced with a number: 0-5. It's recommended to begin at 0 and increment as needed. |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `s_c#`       | An additional special cat, mainly used in outcomes: this cat has some constraints being required of it and could be a cat who was previously assigned an abbreviation. For example, if the patrol as a whole requires `r_c0` to be a warrior and you wish to add an outcome in which any cat with the `calm` trait, including `r_c0`, could also play a role, then you would use `s_c` for that cat. The `#` is replaced with a number: 0-5. It's recommended to begin at 0 and increment as needed. |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
```

| `n_c#`       | A newly generated or existing outsider/other clan cat: The `#` is replaced with a number: 0-6. It's recommended to begin at 0 and increment as needed.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |

!!! tip

>     While not usable within the text of the events, you *can* use keys listed in [required_cat_types](#required_cat_types-dictstr-listint) to gather cats for other parts of the event, such as the `cats_from`/`cats_to` lists. For example, if apprentices are able to come on the patrol, then you can use `"apprentice"` in the `cats_from` list of `relationship_constraint` to specify constraints that the apprentices as a whole must abide by.

Reviewer: gorgeous. i give you forehead kith

Author: ehehehee i did this for u specifically

> Border patrols needs to be the hardest and most dangerous, with a high difficulty for [success chance](#chance-of-success-int).  This is where experienced cats should shine! The [injuries](patrol_outcome.md/#condition-listdict) cats can obtain on them should be a wide range. Failure outcomes on border patrols that don't cause injury should be rare. You are encouraged to apply minor injuries even on success outcome. The same guidelines apply to [killing cats](patrol_outcome.md/#death-listdict) on this patrol type, with the exception that you cannot kill cats on any success outcomes. This is by far the mostly likely patrol type to have cats become [lost](patrol_outcome.md/#lost-listdict) on.

> > Herb gathering patrols are of moderate difficulty for [success chance](#chance-of-success-int) (like hunting patrols). Herb gathering patrols are focused on gathering herbs and thus need to have a [herb reward](patrol_outcome.md/#supplylistdict) under most circumstances. Herb gathering patrols are of medium danger, and the [injuries](patrol_outcome.md/#condition-listdict) cats can obtain on them should either be minor and common (high frequency outcome), moderate and of a mid frequency, or severe and of a low frequency. The same guidelines apply to [killing cats](patrol_outcome.md/#death-listdict) on this patrol type. Herb gathering patrols should be highly seasonal, as not all herbs are available in all seasons, or in the same seasons in different [biomes](../reference/biomes.md). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Herb gathering patrols are of moderate difficulty for [success chance](#chance-of-success-int) (like hunting patrols). Herb gathering patrols are focused on gathering herbs, so successful outcomes must have a [herb reward](patrol_outcome.md/#supplylistdict) under most circumstances. Herb gathering patrols are of medium danger, and the [injuries](patrol_outcome.md/#condition-listdict) cats can obtain on them should either be minor and common (high frequency outcome), moderate and of a mid frequency, or severe and of a low frequency. The same guidelines apply to [killing cats](patrol_outcome.md/#death-listdict) on this patrol type. Herb gathering patrols should be highly seasonal, as not all herbs are available in all seasons, or in the same seasons in different [biomes](../reference/biomes.md). 
```

!!! warning
    Don't try to boost a patrol's frequency to make up for it being heavily constrained! While we used to do that with our old system, the new code automatically decides how to weight a patrol according to its constraints in a way that is completely divorced from the frequency. We decide event rarities and the code decides if events should be prioritized in specific instances.

***

#### location:list[str]
This controls the biome and camp the event appears in. [Tagging Instructions](../reference/tag-lists.md#locations)

***

#### season: list[str]
List of seasons in which the event may occur. You can utilize [exclusionary tags](../reference/tag-lists.md#exclusionary-tags).
You can tag with a mix of "newleaf", "greenleaf", "leaf-fall", "leaf-bare", or remove the parameter altogether to allow for any season.

***

#### tags: list[str]
>Tags are used for some filtering purposes, and some odd-and-ends. Tags never affect outcome. [General Tags](../reference/tag-lists.md#general-tags).

***

#### poi: Dict

> > [POI Constraint Tagging](../points-of-interest.md/#using-points-of-interest)

Reviewer: Could benefit from a quick sentence explaining what poi stands for and why someone might use it in a patrol

| `"all apprentices"`         | Amount of warrior apprentices and medicine cat apprentices.   |

!!! warning
    You *must* at least specify `patrol_cats`.

***

#### involved_cats: Dict[str, var]
This dictionary holds all constraints for the cats whom we wish to reference in the patrol.

Each entry is an individual cat, with the key being their [event designation](#usable-cat-references) (`r_c0`, `p_l`, etc.) and the value being their personal constraints.

```json
            "abbr": {
                "status": [],
                "past_status": [],
                "age": [],
                "standing": {
                    "group": [],
                    "currently": [],
                    "past": []
                  },
                "stat": {
                    "skill": [],
                    "trait": [],
                    "must_have_both": false
                },
                "health": {
                    "working": true,
                    "condition": [],
                    "must_be_congenital": false,
                    "must_be_acquired": false
                },
                "backstory": []
            }
```

**When To Use**

> `p_l` is the only cat designation you can *assume* has a cat attached at all times. With this in mind, you do not need to add a `p_l` entry to `involved_cats` unless you would like to add constraints regarding the sort of cat `p_l` is.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`p_l` is the only cat designation you can *assume* has a cat attached at all times. With this in mind, you do not need to add a `p_l` entry to `involved_cats` unless you would like to add constraints regarding the sort of cat `p_l` is. **Important**: This will not override the game's selection process for patrol leaders. (e.g. You cannot use these constraints to make `p_l` a warrior leading their deputy on patrol, because the deputy will automatically be `p_l`.)
```

With all other cat designations (`r_c0`, `n_c0`, ect.) if you want to be able to reference the cat designation within the text or within other constraint/consequence lists (cats who die, cats who must abide by relationship constraints, etc.), then you *must* declare them within either the patrol-wide `involved_cats` or the relevant outcome `involved_cats`. This can be an empty dict if no constraints are needed:
```json
"r_c0": {}
```

!!! tip
    You do not need to "repeat" constraints! If a patrol can only have apprentices on it via the `required_cat_types` then you don't need to specify that `r_c0` is an apprentice.

> **Specifying an outsider or other clan cat**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Specifying an outsider or other Clan cat**
```

> If you would like to include an outsider or other clan cat, you can specify them using the `n_c#` designation and some additional parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you would like to include an outsider or other Clan cat, you can specify them using the `n_c#` designation and some additional parameters.
```

***

**stat: dict[str: list]**
> Constrains the event to only occur if the cat holds specific skills or traits. You can utilize [exclusionary tags](../reference/tag-lists.md/#exclusionary-tags).

```json
    "stat": {
        "skill": [],
        "trait": [],
        "must_have_both": false
    },
```
>**`"skill"`** - list of allowed skills from [Skill Tag List](../reference/tag-lists.md#__tabbed_3_1)
> 
> **`"trait"`** - list of allowed traits from [Trait Tag List](../reference/tag-lists.md#__tabbed_3_2)
> 
> **`"must_have_both"`** - defaults to `false`. if set to `true`, the cat's trait *and* skills must qualify. if `false`, the cat must have *either* a listed trait or a listed skill.

***

**health: dict[str: var]**
> Constrains the event to only occur if the cat's health matches the constraints.
 
```json
    "health": {
        "working": true,
        "condition": [],
        "must_be_congenital": false,
        "must_be_acquired": false
    }
```

> > **`"working"`** - by default, this is always set to `true`. if set to `false`, the cat can't be a working cat (aka, they are currently disabled by a condition of some kind)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **`"working"`** - by default, this is always set to `true`. if set to `false`, the cat can't be a working cat (aka, they are currently disabled by a condition of some kind). In the case of patrols, it is impossible for a non-working cat to be patrolling, so this will not be used.
```

>
> Example: "patrol_art_clean": "bord_general_intro",

***

#### intro_text: str
>The text that displays when the patrol first starts.

***

#### decline_text: str
>The text that displays if the patrol is declined (do not proceed)

***

#### success_outcomes: list[TextPoolEvent]
> The possible success outcomes. Utilize the [patrol outcome format](patrol_outcome.md). Patrols must have at least one success.

***

#### fail_outcomes: list[TextPoolEvent]
> The possible fail outcomes. Utilize the [patrol outcome format](patrol_outcome.md). Patrols must have at least one fail.

***

#### antag_success_outcomes: list[TextPoolEvent]
> The possible antagonize success outcomes. Utilize the [patrol outcome format](patrol_outcome.md). Antagonize outcomes can be added for patrols involving outsiders, other clan cats, or afterlife visitors.

***

#### antag_fail_outcomes: list[TextPoolEvent]

> > The possible antagonize fail outcomes. Utilize the [patrol outcome format](patrol_outcome.md).Antagonize outcomes can be added for patrols involving outsiders, other clan cats, or afterlife visitors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The possible antagonize fail outcomes. Utilize the [patrol outcome format](patrol_outcome.md). Antagonize outcomes can be added for patrols involving outsiders, other clan cats, or afterlife visitors.
```

***

## What To Consider When Assessing Older Patrols

When assessing an older patrol for ways to make its information clearer or more condensed, there's a few common problems you can look for.

### Required Cats

Check the `required_cat_types` for extraneous or confusing information. For example:

```json
    "required_cat_types":{
        "patrol_cats": [2, 2],
        "warrior": [2, 6],
        "apprentice": [-1, -1]
    }
```

* The `warrior` entry should be `[2, 2]` as `patrol_cats` has established that there can never be more than 2 cats on this patrol.

> * The `apprentice` entry could be removed. It's trying to ensure that no apprentices are allowed, but we've already specified that 2 warriors are necessary on the patrol and only 2 cats can be on the patrol. Thus we know those 2 cats must already be warriors.

Reviewer: this is so beautiful
